I will remember this this phrase forever
he he said
because it is a thing of
fire oh that it's one of the very few
traditions of a global flood that
destroys a former civilization as I say
there's up to 200 of them it's one of
the only ones which actually gives a
date so are you are you getting to some
sort of more true Proto architecture to
religion that involves these sort of
oral Traditions passed down that
cuts across geography look these were
secret societies which were entrusted
with preserving information from what
they call the first time and passing it
down to Future Generations that
represents such a
precocious Advanced astronomical
knowledge that's macro it's Cosmic scale
knowledge yeah that we just don't have
today it's not just life after death
it's this leap to the Milky Way it's
this journey through the what is called
it it's strangely it's called underworld
but it's also in the
Scot I'm here with the legendary Graham
Hancock I'm so honored to be with you
I'm always honored to be with you thank
you the feeling is mutual oh well thank
you and uh it's been two years since we
last sat down I feel like your career
has hit a new Apex over these last two
years despite the haters yeah uh you've
become a a staple on Joe Rogan you did
an amazing debate with uh Flint Dibble
which uh I I feel like not only did you
win kind of socratically but you won
because he wasn't even armed with the
correct facts I think yeah my my
objective was not to win and and I I'm
not sure I did win that debate uh I
think I I think I was up against um a
very a very intelligent individual who
was well prepared I I'm more interested
in the truth and and getting the truth
across rather than winning debating
points and I I I appeared with
subsequent research to be be up against
an opponent who was primarily interested
in winning debating part and whose and
whose argument is um constantly praising
himself for his for his win um but I
think I think that uh debate
where I definitely wasn't at my best I
think I think that debate uh has helped
to show the general public uh how
archaeology functions when it deals with
people with alternative points of view
yeah and that and that function seems to
be to win at all costs archology must
win or that's the other thing that that
my debating partner in that debate says
he he constantly keeps repeating he's
destroyed
gra actually I don't feel destroyed um
and I think it was I think it was a good
thing to do well I think your truth
seeking has reached a new Apex as far as
its resonance just among the broader
public I mean you have a new season of
ancient Apocalypse Now out on Netflix
there's numerology there's mathematics
there astronomy it's absolutely
fantastic you have cameos from people
like Kiana Reed
it's kind of BG andg and gr into this
ground swell that no kind of you know
expert in some Citadel sitting on a
perch saying that they have the proper
credentials can really stop at this
point so I hope you are aware that it
it's hopefully moved beyond the point
where I can just be cancelled which is
which is which is what some of my
opponents in archaeology definitely
would like to you're uncan well I think
uh you know it's like a mystery ritual
you have to die before you die to not
die and maybe you have to be mini canell
to ultimately not get canel or something
and so you've been you've gotten people
have tried to get at you death by a
Thousand Cuts but now you're
Immortal I
wish but uh it's it's fantastic to be
with you and I as I always try to do per
our you know two-year tradition I think
you cover so much ground on some of the
other podcasts when it comes to kind of
just some of the basic claims yeah I
want to get more into this kind of kind
of crazy speculative stuff if you're
willing to go there let's go crazy but
first I want to ask you what was Graham
Hancock doing in his 20s and 30s because
I sort of realized through ancient
apocalypse you're like I've been doing
this for 40 years I know you're in your
70s now yeah what were you doing before
kind of discovering the ancient world
yeah well uh if we go back to my to my
school days well let's see let's go back
even further uh my my my my child Hood
um I I was born in Edinburgh in Scotland
um at the age of four my mom and dad
moved to South India to the state of
Tamil Nadu uh and uh my dad was a
staunch Christian um I am not I I do not
Embrace any monotheistic Faith or any
faith actually but he was working as a
surgeon uh in a place called the
Christian um uh I'm trying to remember
the name of it now the Christian Medical
College uh in in VOR in South India so I
had four years of my childhood in South
India and then uh came back lived in uh
the UK back to the UK lived in Northern
Ireland in the city of Belfast for four
years then moved to the north of England
from the moment we came back from India
I that's when I started realizing that I
was an outsider that I wasn't I wasn't
where whatever the center of thing is I
wasn't in it I was on the edges looking
in and I did feel very alienated I
didn't feel that I belonged and that
feeling of of not being uh belonging to
to the mainstream was was reinforced
when I was sent to a boarding school in
the in the north of England uh and I
just couldn't relate to their way of
teaching uh and I couldn't I couldn't I
just didn't get it uh this sort of
forcing forcing to learn a particular
Doctrine a particular Dogma being forced
to kneel down in Chapel which I refused
to do that was one of my my first acts
of rebellion all of these things I I I I
just couldn't get and and the school
couldn't get me so uh although I
struggled through uh I was basically
regarded by the teachers as as quite
stupid actually they just they just
couldn't see uh they wrote reports
saying that I had no future that I was a
dreamer uh that I was going nowhere it
was a very discouraging experience
actually it was only when I went to just
scraped into University that I sudden
found myself in an environment of freeth
thinkers uh and and there I and there I
clicked and and and and there I ended up
getting the best degree that it's
possible to get at a at a British
University um but then I had a a
breakthrough when I met my first wife uh
who was from Somalia but living in
England at that time she wanted to go
back and live in Somalia again uh and I
thought that was a wonderful idea but
how do we fund this uh and I managed to
get a because of my good degree I
managed to get a a scholarship from I
think called the Lum Foundation um who
who um funded me to spend a year in
Somalia very very very minimal funding
uh just the kind of amount that will
just allow you to just get by and um
when I came when we came back from
Somalia in 197 yeah it was 1975 to 1976
I was there when we came back in
1976 I had some I had some expertise at
at least in the Horn of Africa in East
Africa and I was able to gradually build
up freelance journalism assignments uh
and and that was that was primarily what
I did in the 1970s I was desperate to
get the opportunity to go back and live
in Africa again and I managed to get a
deal with the economist to be their East
Africa correspondent based out of
Nairobi and traveling quite widely in
East Africa particularly in Ethiopia you
were just covering culture generally I I
was covering covering current affairs
okay I I I it was current Affairs
journalism I I it was not a it was not a
big honorable position I was their East
Africa correspondent but I was paid you
know 50 UK pounds a month as a as a
retainer and then you get paid wow then
you get paid for every word you write
typically an economist story is 300
words in length so you don't get paid
that much uh but it opened doors for me
and it opened the door of Ethiopia to me
and I got to know Ethiopia very very
well uh and that in turn opened the door
to the investigation of the possibility
of a of of A Lost Civilization so it was
a it was a series of steps that that led
me down the path that I now still find
myself on was was the thing in Ethiopia
that opened you up the possibility of
them holding the Arc of the C yes that
was that that's right I I think I've
always had a nose for a good story um
whether it's current affairs or or
ancient history uh and while in Ethiopia
on current affairs business uh I kept
coming across their tradition to that
they were the true last resting place of
The Last Arc of the Covenant you have to
admit though that's a pretty trippy
autobiographical three line because the
Ark of the Covenant is supposed to kind
of carry all of all knowledge all you
know timelines and yeah your initial
impetus for getting into all this
ancient civilizational stuff was looking
into the Ark of the Covenant I I ate it
I slept it I breathed it it I I dreamed
it all the time it it it was with me and
look at how far you've come since then
as far as piecing together all these
similarities across you know disperate
sites all over the world yes yeah that's
very interesting initially it was it was
just an intriguing story and I I it
wasn't the M my main focus in the in the
1980s but it was something I gradually
built up information on to till I got to
a point where I knew I had a book to
what's the town that the Arc of the
Covenant AUM axum axum and it's in the
province of t uh in Northern Ethiopia
and and there's a we we need not go into
it in detail but there's a whole uh long
tradition in Ethiopia actually Ethiopia
is the only country in the world that
claims to have the Ark of the Covenant
uh there are lots of rumors Traditions
suggestions that it might be in Jordan
that it might be hidden beneath the
Temple mount in Jerusalem in all kinds
of places but there's one country in the
world where it's a living tradition and
where it's Central oddly to Christianity
in Ethiopia because it's a pre-christian
relic uh but it's Central to Ethiopian
Christianity uh and and they have their
own story about how the Ark of the
Covenant got there but actually it was
as I began to research this subject and
encountered the very interesting
community of indigenous Ethiopian Jews
who were known as the falashas uh they
call themselves the beta Israel the
house of
Israel they have a very ancient presence
in Ethiopia and uh they have their own
story about how the Ark of the Covenant
got to Ethiopia and it's quite different
from the Ethiopian National epic which
is called the kein aast The Glory of
Kings their their story is much much
more interesting uh and and is clearly
factually based uh for all kinds of
reasons like how their ancestors had
fled from Israel carrying the ark like
how they brought it to an island in the
Nile River and kept it there for several
hundred years like how they were forced
out and fled South following the Blue
Nile to its source in Lake Tana which is
where the the fasha communities still
live today now actually when I say still
live today uh during the the chaos of
the overthrow of the mistu regime in
Ethiopia in
1991 uh Israel uh flew in many many
large cargo planes and and actually
airlifted out of Ethiopia the majority
of the Ethiopian Jews and put them uh
put resettled them in Israel quite a
number have returned but there's still a
large Ethiopian Jewish community in in
Israel itself now and they just have
fascinating stories about this and
stories that make sense and stories that
I was able to tie up with historical
evidence uh so you know I gradually
began to feel that uh this claim that
Ethiopia makes may may have a real basis
to it and obviously that involved me
figuring out what this thing is it's the
first time that I began to get a sense
of something missing in the human story
because the Arc of the Covenant um does
sound there there's a very detailed
description of it in the Bible uh in the
book of Exodus uh in the Old Testament
and that and that description is like a
blueprint for a device which supposedly
God gives to Moses on Mount Si and it
directs the Israelites where to go when
they're in the desert yes um as they
carry it through the desert it's carried
in procession before them uh it becomes
it becomes Central to the way and of
course it contains the tablets of the
Ten Commandments according to the the
book of Exodus but also it strikes
people dead with bolts of fire that come
out of it
um it uh it can cause uh whole
populations to suffer from cancerous
tumors as it did when the the the the
Philistines as they're called in the
Bible briefly captured it uh they all
died um so so bad that they had to
return it to the Israelites which is
fascinating because you say that the
guards that are guarding it in axom
currently seem to have radiation damage
and certain cases they have cataracts
they all have cataracts over their eyes
and and by and large once they are Appo
appointed guardian of their Ark they
have a lifespan of about three years uh
and they all say because I've
interviewed a number of them in
succession uh when the previous one has
died I've gone back found a new a new
guy there and he said yeah my my
predecessor died uh and and the Ark did
it uh and and he shows me the cataracts
over his eyes and he says the ark is
doing this to me and and and and uh I
said why and I will remember this this
phrase forever he he said
because it is a thing of
fire and you said you almost went in
there but you were you were very afraid
no I I was not allowed to go you weren't
allowed I was allowed I was allowed
through the gates in front of the
sanctuary Chapel in which the Ethiopian
climate is kept but I wasn't allowed
into the I think I asked you why didn't
you sneak in Graham and you said there
was you said something very interesting
to me though you said something inside
of me said I wasn't ready and it would
be dangerous I felt it would be
obnoxious to try and sneak in it would
be wrong you know I have to respect the
sanctity of this place uh and and
besides the the people of axum are well
prepared to defend it uh were anybody to
try to break into that Chapel they would
be
shot simp did you know if if this if
it's just been an axom all along you had
you know Hinrich Kimler under Hitler
looking for these you know the Holy
Grail The Arc of the Covenant did he
ever try to go go to axim and dur during
the Italian occupation of Ethiopia which
was roughly 1935 to
1941 um the Ethiopians say that they
took the ark out of axen uh and they
took it to another place of safekeeping
that's their story they took it to an
island on Lake Z which is south of of
Adis Ababa I wouldn't be surprised if
there were efforts to find it but uh the
Ethiopians have been very competent and
frustrating those efforts for for for a
very long time anyway it's a FAS a story
and it led me down a track that I hadn't
expected to find myself going down and
it led me down that track is of of what
else is missing in our past and and why
are archaeologists so arrogant because
they arrogantly and sneeringly dismissed
the Ethiopian tradition whereas at a
heart level when I encountered
Ethiopians who were connected to this
story I F I I found people with a with a
deep commitment and Faith to it and and
uh solid reasoning why it should be
there uh so that probably was the first
time I began to wonder whether
archaeologists are entirely trustworthy
uh and certainly began to feel that if
I'm researching any subject to do with
the ancient past I will not rely only on
what archaeologists have to
say that's beautiful so you realized
there was something more true about the
your firsthand experience than
definitely yeah yeah yeah absolutely and
and that's my my my approach to to
researching any subject is that I have
to be there in person I have to have
boots on the ground ground I have to I
have to have strong local investigation
going on I can't just rely on books and
what so-called experts tell me shifting
to the Pyramids of Giza you say they're
not just a tomb well they're not only
they're not a they're not a tomb they're
not a tomb again I'm In conflict with
with archaeology here but I'm certainly
not the only one uh because the the
notion that the Great Pyramid is a tomb
and only a tomb which is what
Archaeology teaches um uh in my view is
is absurd uh it's well known that no no
burial of any Pharaoh was ever found in
the Great Pyramid or for that matter in
any of the 100 pyramids in in Egypt some
of that can be down to tomb robbery but
in the case of the Great Pyramid it was
it was completely closed and sealed
until um Arab Raiders under khif Mamon
broke in to the Great Pyramid and they
found it empty they they were expecting
to find enormous treasures and wealth
and instead they found it a completely
empty building with with nothing inside
it at all of course there are many other
unexplored areas of the Great Pyramid
remote scanning is now showing uh that
there are huge as yet uninvestigated
cavities within the Great Pyramid huge
Chambers uh the the best known feature
of the Great Pyramid inside is the grand
gallery and it looks like it look looks
like there's a second Grand Gallery
above it uh within within the pyramid
that shows up in scanning nobody's been
able to get in there yet but it's it's
not going to be an impossible
technological feat to do so I I I think
rather than being at the end of the
study of the Great Pyramid I think we're
just at the beginning of the study of
the Great Pyramid and little by little
uh it if we are worthy it will reveal
its secrets to us I think that's what
it's intended to do but it's not a tomb
it makes no sense it makes no sense very
simple reasons when you know that
Monument when you see it when you
confront it when you confront its 6
million tons when you confront its
incredible Precision when you confront
the already known corridors and and
passageways within it the the notion
that this that this was built in 23
years uh is absurd uh and yet if the
notion that it is the tomb of kufu is
correct and if that's all it is then it
had to be built in 23 years because that
was the length of his Reign uh and and
uh I I regard that as impossible and and
anybody with Structural Engineering
experience like my great friend Robert
bval uh also regard it as impossible
more likely it's a it's a project that
took hundreds of years to complete uh
and and maybe thousands um I think that
there's no doubt that parts of the Great
Pyramid uh were completed and and
finished by the ancient Egyptians I I
don't seek to to take it away from the
ancient Egyptians but I think they were
inheriting a very ancient tradition and
they were completing a monument that
already stood in basic form on the Giza
Plateau I felt from the beginning that
the three ground platforms on which the
three Great Pyramids stand are far older
than the pyramids themselves and they
represent uh an Epoch that the ancient
Egyptians called zepe the first time and
they do so uh astronomically they do so
in terms of astronomical connection to
aion's Belt just as the Great Sphinx
does so in terms of the connection to
the Rising Sun on the Equinox uh which
at one time was housed by the
constellation of Leo uh and that uh
moment when the three stars of Orion's
Belt are du out on the Meridian at dawn
on the Spring Equinox is also precisely
the moment that the Great Sphinx is
looking at the constellation of Leo
12,500 years ago not 4,500 years ago
4,500 years ago the stars of Orion's
Belt don't match up and and uh 4,500
years ago the Great Sphinx was looking
at the sun rising against the background
of the constellation of Taurus but we
have a Lon bodied
Monument representing a Celestial figure
that we call the con stellation of Leo
and that many ancient cultures called
the constellation of Leo and of course
immediately huge argument from
egyptologists from from archaeologists
who who say no no uh the Greeks or the
Babylonians late Babylonians discovered
the constellations of the zodiac nobody
had recognized them before that complete
complete complete rubbish
ancient cultures exposed to the drama of
the skies in a way in a way that we are
not could not have couldn't possibly
have failed to observe the 12 zodia
constellations which happen to be the
constellations that lie on the path of
the sun If You observe the annual course
of the sun you will see during the
months of the year that it rises against
the background of each one of those
constellations but over a much longer
period when your marker is the Spring
Equinox uh you find that it's going
backwards through the Zodiac and it
takes us it gives us a very precise way
of astronomically
dating a time that was very important to
the ancient Egyptians again I think it's
important for people to get this uh that
it is impossible to you it's possible to
use megalithic architecture which is
going to endure
forever you know there's that saying
that uh time fears the pyramids because
they just last on forever and to use
astronomy uh to spell out a date uh very
precisely and that's what happens at
Giza we have many other monuments uh all
over the world which may have been built
the example I usually give is one of the
gothic cathedrals in Europe built um in
the 12 or 1300s but but much of the
symbolism is devoted to the age of
Abraham which takes you back of the
childis to about 2,000 BC so so the
notion that a that a monument might
choose to memorialize a very ancient
date uh doesn't have to mean that that
Monument was built at that ancient date
it can be referring to that ancient date
and saying to us the ancient Egyptians
that date was very important and I'd be
willing to stop there if it wasn't for
the erosion patterns on the Sphinx yeah
which have water damage on the water
damage the exposure of the Sphinx to to
thousands of years of heavy rainfall uh
that was not no such rains were on the
Giza Plateau 4,500 years ago but they
certainly will when you go back to the
were when you go back to the end of the
last ice age so it looks to me like the
Sphinx and the megalithic temples beside
it uh the so-called Valley Temple the
Mory temples on the Giza Plateau there
are elements on the Giza plateau in my
view uh it's much better to to to come
to the conclusion that they were
actually made 12 and a half thousand
years ago and there are other elements
which are meor memorializing the date of
12 and a half thousand years ago the
implications of what you're saying are
profound because the procession is a
26,000 year process right and for uh a
culture that we now consider primitive I
agree with you I think it clearly was
not at all primitive but to understand
the let's let's be clear on that the no
way on God's Earth can we call the
ancient Egyptians Prim well we can't
build what they built so there's this
was this was a highly sophisticated
culture and it was a culture as it
emerges into historical recognition as
it becomes what they call
archaeologically Visible around 3,000 BC
5,000 years ago it's already fully
evolved they're doing their best stuff
right at the beginning um and and and
they are from the beginning
memorializing much more ancient times
Zep tee the first time uh which I and my
colleagues think correlates closely with
the date that we call 12,500 years ago
or 10,500 BC but if what you're saying
about the Sphinx and the pyramids are
correct and that the Sphinx was for
example actually meant to depict Leo
which was the constellation which
represented the vernal equinox shift
around that period that represents such
a
precocious advanced astronomical
knowledge that's macro it's Cosmic scale
knowledge yeah that we just don't have
today it's knowled it's knowledge
requires scientific observation over a
long period of time particularly when
you're actually going to create a marker
of that uh on the ground and I I think
it's really important that I pay tribute
to Robert Bal um because it's Robert Bal
close friend of mine great great
colleague of Mind unfortunately he's
been very ill for the last several years
but but Robert uh is the person who
established and found the Orion
correlation theory for which he came
into such vicious and vile attacks from
egyptologist Simply for noticing that
the pattern of the three pyramids on the
ground resembles the pattern of the
three stars of Orion's Belt and then
tracking back through procession to find
the time when it actually absolutely
matches and that's about 12,500 years
ago and Robert and I worked together on
the on the whole mystery of the Sphinx
but but I would not be here in any way
able to talk about the irion correl
if it had not been for the absolutely
fundamental foundational work of Robert
Bal and and I finish this by saying I I
also want to pay pay tribute to
Professor Robert shock of Boston
University geologist professor of
geology one of the few mainstream
academics who's been willing to stick
his neck out and say as a geologist when
I look at the weathering patterns on
this Monument it's not 4 and a half
thousand years old it's more like 12 and
a half thousand years old again Robert
has come in for Robert shock has come in
for horrendous attacks from the
archaeological Community but he's had
the guts to stick it out and before him
John Anthony West who who's passed away
in 2018 it was John who first brought
Robert shock to the to the Giza Plateau
so the ideas I'm expressing now have a
have a lineage and I may be the person
who's writing them down but they're not
ideas that I've invented and by the way
I think it's important to present to the
audience that modern egyptology is sort
of a product and gated by
modern Egyptian Ministry of culture and
uh you know we're here actually we have
yes Theory present uh they're amazing
they did a collaboration with you
earlier this year and we also have your
amazing wife Santa we have Kate and
Laura as well and uh Omar over here is
Egyptian and he actually uh maybe his
Proto yes Theory experience that ended
up kind of convening him with everybody
else was uh he wanted to be the first
person to uh one of the first people to
climb the the pyramid only to realize
the only to realize that grand had
already done it and seen that his his
grandfather had an Insignia and he had
done it to grandfather's graffiti at the
top of the Great Pyramid yeah I've been
I've been lucky to climb the Great
Pyramid several times I've climbed the
Great Pyramid five times what and two of
those climbs were legal of course there
was a time when anybody could anybody
could climb the Great Pyramid but here's
my little anecdote I found s and I
together found at the top of the Great
Pyramid on the South Side overlooking
what used to be the Boat Museum uh on
one step down from the top we found the
name p initial P Hancock 5th of April
1916 well my grandfather was Philip
Hancock no yes and he was in Egypt he
was in yeah he was in Egypt during the
first world war are you serious I still
couldn't be 100% sure it was him and at
that time my dad was still alive and he
had my grandfather's Diaries which were
little things little Diaries dozens of
them and I went through to the date
given and I opened that page and I saw
just one line and it said climbed Great
Pyramid
today way my God that's crazy that was
my granddad but you're you're absolutely
right on on the comment that that
there's like a the current government
the current people the governing body
for Antiquities and and and tourism in
Egypt they have been Z how has been this
one guy that is like fully
monopolizing what narrative comes out
about Egypt and about how things work
back then and it's like it feels like
he's refusing to die he's like pretty
old I I'd like to add a comment to that
um zahi and I have had a long
relationship from his signature Fedora
to his discoveries at the Giza tombs and
Valley of the golden mummies
egyptologist Dr zahi hows is clearly a
passionate promoter of ancient Egypt um
I've known zahi since the midnight
1990s um and actually for many years
that relationship was quite positive it
certainly wasn't negative um but we had
a falling out in 2015 and I said some
very harsh words to him at the
time and looking back on them in
retrospect as the years passed by I
began to feel I'd been unfair to zahi uh
not so much that zah hadd been unfair to
me that I'd been unfair to him and I've
reached the point in life now where I
would like to remove all bitterness and
past conflicts from my life I don't want
to be in conflict with with other people
if if at all possible so I reached out
to zahi earlier this year uh and uh told
him that I would like to meet up and
have a have a conversation and see if we
can if we can make peace did you meet up
yeah absolutely was it good it was great
Santa and I had dinner with zahi and
with zahi son kareim yeah uh it was a
very very enjoyable dinner um zahi is an
entertaining and amusing speaker did you
stay away from your semantic
disagreements did you say well no I I
told him I I apologized I made an
apology to zahi and and by by doing so I
I lifted a burden off my back and I
tried to do this with with with with
people who I have been unfair to and
been unkind to I I I want to put that
right as much as I can before before I
leave this this physical body for
whatever whatever happens next hopefully
that's not for long time I a burden of
too
much bitterness and bad feeling and
baggage that's that's very Noble of you
but did you say zah I think that the
fonic headdress put on the Sphinx was
after you know the original base and it
was actually Leo he knows I think that
the argument is that the Great Sphinx
was originally a lion totally a lion not
just a lion body with a human head but a
lion body with a lion head so the pH the
the Pharaoh aspect
or yes originally it was prehistoric
Sphinx was a lion um and and then the
lion head uh became heavily eroded and
damaged as thousands of years passed and
in the time of the Pharaohs it was
transformed it was cut down and remade
into the human head that we see on it
today wearing the classic nemes
headdress of an ancient Egyptian pharaoh
zahi and I um may have some interesting
collaboration in the future interesting
where it will be an agreement to
disagree Co where he will have the
opportunity to strongly put his point of
view and I will have the opportunity to
strongly put mine amazing but we won't
do that by smearing and insulting each
othering we won't do that by trying to
cut each other down without homonym
attacks on each other we'll do that in a
friendly way does he have any first
principal arguments against the
Limestone damage water erosion damage
yes zah and all egyptologists don't
don't accept that yeah but because
what's what's the argument against it
not accepting it never understood what
the argument is clearly it's never
persuaded me but perhaps if I if if I
can have more dialogue with with zahi
I'll understand it better and maybe
maybe I'll be able to persuade him a
little more to to my point of view yeah
um that that there are issues around the
Sphinx and around the pyramids which
have not been properly investigated yeah
um you tribute to zahi he is um
undoubtedly spent his entire working
life yeah uh focused on the archaeology
of the giz plateau uh and on the
archaeology of Egypt in general this is
a man uh with an enormous amount of
experience in this field this is a man
who has had access to every important
structure and monument in in ancient
Egypt um in other words he is a Fountain
of Knowledge on the subject uh and I
don't want to dismiss Fountains of
knowledge I want to see what I can learn
from zahi and I hope that he might learn
something from me as well and we might
we might end up we might end up in a
place uh where where where where there
is respect respectful disagreement and
we can openly discuss the mysteries of
the past that's what I would hope to get
to that sounds beautiful have you ever
seen the movie Stargate long time ago
Kurt Russell movie yeah you know there's
I have seen it there's a portal it's
near the Pyramids of Giza yeah but I
look at a lot of your work and when it
comes to the pyramids themselves lining
up with the Ryan's Belt Ryan's Belt has
always across many cultures been the
place of Ascension of souls absolutely
is it is here in in North America uh and
and in Central America and in South
America the the path of souls uh that
idea that on death we our soul makes a
kind of leap up to the heavens and then
makes a journey along the Milky Way uh
and that that journey is full of
challenges and difficulties uh on which
we will be assessed for the use we made
of the Incredible Gift of Life uh that
idea is found all over the world it's a
it's a Universal idea and it's one of
the reasons why I propose that there's
been a forgotten episode in human
history that we are looking at a a
legacy of an idea that was passed down
to many later cultures from a remote
common ancestor uh going back to the to
the end of the last and even if you look
at the king's shaft lines up with Orion
and the queen shaft lines up with Sirius
right yeah so it's this really
interesting precise alignment with
constellation
The King The King The shs of the king's
chamber don't point at to Rion but one
of the shs of the queen chamber does
okay okay and but and let's be clear no
King was ever buried in that chamber
these are these are all modern names
that have been given by egyptologists to
these Chambers to to manifest their
theory about why there's so many
chambers inside the Great Pyramid um but
we have no idea what the ancient
Egyptians or anybody else ever called
them in the past do you have a do you
have a best guess as to what these were
ritualistically used for given their
alignment given the intense focus of the
ancient
Egyptians on the mystery of life after
death on the mystery of life and on the
mystery of death actually what what what
happens to us most modern scientists of
a very so-called rational persuasion who
believe that everything can be solved
with weighing measuring and Counting uh
will tell you almost as though it's an
absolute fact that they've somehow
established through experimentation that
the soul there is no such thing as the
soul uh and that that that it that it
does not survive death uh of course this
is not a fact this is a statement of a
religious belief on the part of those uh
scientists uh who who who who view uh
any such thing as mystical and nonsense
um there is no experiment that could be
done frankly it's a mystery none of us
know none of us know none of us have a
clue what happens maybe they they're so
called rational scientists are right
maybe we are just meat robots uh
meaninglessly uh living out our
existence here on Earth producing and
and consuming maybe that's all we are it
could be but I don't think it is and the
ancient Egypt our our society pays no
attention to these Mysteries the ancient
Egyptians that was their focus for 3,000
years and they came to very very very
definite conclusions about it uh and
those those conclusions uh I think are
very deep and very weighty and and worth
considering it's fascinating that the
same idea is found all around the world
I get it why many different cultures
might believe in life after death um the
the argument for that is people delude
them rational scientists argument for
that is people delude themselves into
believing there's life after death uh
because they don't like the idea of
coming to an end but it's much more
specific than that it's not just life
after death it's this leak to the Milky
Way it's this journey through the what
is called it's strangely it's called an
underworld but it's also in the sky
it's this journey through it it's the
challenges and ordal that the soul will
face along the way where he or she will
be held to account for for the life they
have lived for that very that very
specific set of Notions to turn up all
around the world that's not an accident
that is that is a result I believe of a
of a shared common influence uh and and
that this is something else that
archaeologists I think don't really get
I think what's missing is is an
archaeology of ideas uh and that ideas
can live and can be passed on through
stories through traditions for thousands
and thousands and thousands of years and
they can REM manifest again and again so
you can get cultures that are separated
by not just thousands of years but also
thousands of miles who are still
manifesting these ideas for example the
ancient Maya in Central America and we
go into this in one of the episodes of
season two of ancient apocalypse with a
with with with um with a great
archaeologist who doesn't hate me
and and um you know he he agrees that
this is a worldwide tradition it's a
very very curious thing and there's this
common Trope too you have uh King Judea
of Sumeria saying that in a dream he was
given this lapy lazuli these tablets
saying that he has to build a temple
with these specific astronomical
alignments you see the same thing with
uh Pharaoh tmos in Egypt you see the
same thing with Aztec Leaders with neb
Nezar this sort of you know idea of you
get this kind of download or you have
this Divine connection and then you must
build this temple with these specific
astronomical alignment so I think that
does Point towards something having to
do with the afterlife or some sort of
Ascension portal I was even reading tmy
tmy you know is Proto astronomy sort of
like the the in between of like the
astronomy we have today and you know
whatever we had in the past and he's
writing in 100 AD in Roman times and
he's saying that the you know Soul's
Ascension path is through Orion's Belt
yeah that's right that's right the leap
is always to Orion's Belt that's another
of the of the common factors in this
idea around the world T because Orion
stands by the Milky Way from there
you're on the Milky Way then you make
your journey so are you are you getting
to some sort of more true Proto
architecture to religion that involves
these sort of oral Traditions past down
that cuts across geography look the I'll
give you two examples
the I've tried to explain it it's best
done graphically um really for for for
this to be understood the the phenomenon
of
precession um is because the Earth is is
the viewing platform I try to explain it
in this way from which we observe the
stars and because the Earth wobbles very
slowly on its axis and because that
wobble unfolds a complete cycle in just
under 26,000 years the effect for us as
observers is that the Stars Orient a in
the skies gradually changes and the the
rising time of those stars in relation
to the sun gradually changes and the
pole star gradually changes because the
extended North Pole of the earth is
wobbling uh and and we'll sometimes
point at empty space and sometimes point
at other stars ours is Polaris but it's
been other stars uh in in in the past um
so this is um this is a very uh complex
very sophisticated process which
requires detailed observation now as
I've said using procession and
Monumental architecture the ancient
Egyptians have built an enormous
statement on the ground that speaks to
the date that we call 10,500 BC
astronomically speaks to that date about
12 and a half thousand years ago then
jump over to gobec Le tee in turkey look
at Pillar 43 in enclosure D look at the
look at the very interesting symbolism
on that pillar which in which includes a
scorpion which includes a vulture with
outstretched arms which includes a a
circle which we believe resembles the
sun on the wing of that vulture what we
find is that that is very persuasively
an astronomical diagram of the sky at
the summer solstice 12 and a half
thousand years ago and and the the sun
is on the on the arm of Sagittarius is
the constellation that we think is
represented by that figure the fact that
we call it Sagittarius other cultures
can call it other things and symbolize
it as other things um but the fact is
that the shape of that constellation is
what is reflected on that pillar uh and
using procession um it marks out again
that same date that the ancient
Egyptians called the first time and
that's interesting because pillar 43 in
enclosure d uh enclosure D has been
dated to 11,600 years ago but it's
marking a date more than a thousand
years before that 12, 500 to 12,800
years ago so that tells us that whoever
built gockley teepe that that previous
date was as important to them as it was
to the ancient
Egyptians that's so fascinating I think
so yeah you write about this a little in
your book Talisman with Robert Bal yeah
of this sort of quote unquote
organization yes that sort of
hermetically transfers wisdom yes the
passing down of knowledge over thousands
of years does itely involve some kind of
organization it's not going to happen
randomly uh it can happen it can happen
in in certain ways with stories um this
is something that I I came to understand
way back in the late
1980s um and and again pay tribute to
the work of others probably mentioned it
to you before Hamlet's Mill Georgio de
santiana MIT not to be confused with the
the guy who presents Ancient Aliens
Georgio de santiano was a professor of
History of Science at at Mi
back in the 1960s he vonin professor of
the history of science um at at
Frankfurt University um and and you know
they have they have identified uh very
ancient very early knowledge of uh of
procession I've been talking so much
I've forgotten how we got on that point
I I I brought up the organization yes
the the organization so one way that
ideas can be maintained is to embed
those ideas in wonderful stories call
them myths if you like
which the story itself is so compelling
that people will keep on repeating it
down the ages the Storyteller no longer
has to have knowledge that there is
secret information embedded in that
story yes as long as the Storyteller
keeps on repeating the story through the
secret information will continue to be
passed down and later cultures if
they're open-minded and have their eyes
and ears open may be able to decipher
that information that's one way that
that information can be preserved across
thousands of years it's one of the
reasons why myths is so important to me
without any organization involved but I
think very clear in the case of ancient
Egypt whether you call them the
followers of Horus whether you call them
The Souls of pay and Neen uh that these
were secret societies which were
entrusted with preserving information
from what they call the first time and
passing it down to Future Generations uh
and although it may seem like a bit of a
stretch I suggest that that information
was preserved for thousands and
thousands of years and constantly passed
down and when the time was felt to be
right ancient Egypt was switched on uh
and of course it was switched on
entirely by ancient Egyptians this was
thousands of years after the information
had reached them and then was passed
down through the generations and
preserved and it's hard to say why
exactly the period of roughly 3,000 BC
5,000 years ago to 2,500 BC 4 and a half
thousand years ago was chosen as the
time to switch on the engine of ancient
Egypt but interestingly enough that's
exactly the same period that the engine
of the indis valley civilization was
switched on in what is now Pakistan and
Northern India it's exactly the same
time that the Yellow River civilization
was was switched on this is found this
this date this this Emer sudden
emergence of civilization as it's called
Uh coordinates with that date all around
the world it's not just it's not just
ancient Egypt so again that makes me
feel that there's something behind it
and that we're probably missing a very
important part of the human story that's
behind it and that part of the human
story goes back to the last ice age in
my view that's linking all of these
civilizational cycles and we think of
the birthplace of kind of Western
Civilization is the helenic period in
the Greeks but in fact you point out
that there's a really clear through line
from Plato to the ancient Egyptians you
have Solon yeah and and the myth you
know and well again the the Atlantis
story is I've had so much SC On Me by
archeologists for for taking the
Atlantis story seriously because they're
convinced that it's just a sort of
political Fable that Plato made up in
order to establish certain philosophical
points about how governments should work
and this was for the audience because it
was told that this Festival that was you
know Mythos or whatever it was in was
involved in sort of Storytelling I think
mythology played a very there was more
reality to to a lot of what was
transpired in these festivals that
that's right I mean you you'll find the
Atlantis story in the dialogues of timus
and critius of Plato um and what the
archaeologist say is that this is all
just a fable but in order to say that
they have to separate the Atlantis
tradition from the global tradition of a
great flood that that tradition is
worldwide there are roughly 200 flood
myths from all around the world there
are very few parts of the world that
don't have it and there are many
striking common features about those
flood and cataclysm myths it's one of
the reasons we call our series ancient
apocalypse actually uh and and I regard
the Atlantis tradition passed down to us
by Plato as part of that well because it
dates to 9,600 BC that it's one of the
very few traditions of a global flood
that destroys a former civilization as I
say there's up to 200 of them it's one
of the only ones which actually gives a
date uh and it gives that date because
the Egyptian priests who read the
hieroglyphs on the wall of the temple
Neath at CIS in the Delta to Solon and
translated it for him when he asked them
when did this happen when did this place
get destroyed when was it submerged
Beneath the Sea they kind of matter of
fact he said oh well 9,000 years ago
there's the date because that was 600 BC
that that's 9,000 years before 600 BC
that's 9,600 BC that's 11,600 years ago
give it take 24 years before our time uh
and that is meltwater pulse 1B that is
the one of the big sea level rise
incidents that took place at the end of
the I AG so so for Plato to have
stumbled upon that just randomly pick
that data some sort of grand fiction
seems to me absurd well I think once
mythology starts to comport with actual
events we have to stop calling it
mythology I believe so I I believe so
and and and I think I think what Plato
did was I think he took he took elements
of a very ancient tradition which which
had been passed down to him by the
ancient Egyptians uh as he as he states
in the the the the timus and critius
dialogues he took elements of that that
were useful to him and he left out other
elements that W but it's the connection
it's the connection to the worldwide
tradition of a global flood that
archaeologists completely ignore when
they seek to dismiss the Atlantic
tradition and I think they need to take
it on board and rather than excuse the
language rather than pissing on Plato
you know they they they they should say
well actually what can we find from this
this is this is very interesting let's
see if there's more to it than we
imagine uh let's see if that date is
significant in some way and it is well I
think a great other example would be the
pelian war where we said it was all
mythology you know it was all you know
the city of Troy did not exist and then
late 19th century we figure out oh there
actually was a city a Troy Anatolia
that's that's one of the great examples
and I think I think
mythology needs to be used as a guide
absolutely rather than kind of sneered
at as fantasies made up by our primitive
ancestors and the 19 century case with
Troy it was found by schan schleman yeah
who was Hinrich Von schleman who was
kind of this he was a businessman he was
an outsider the nobody in archaeology at
the time respected him I know yeah and
they thought he was a fraud or whatever
something never change yeah right arist
don't like Outsiders well in the 19th
century you had all these guys you had
JG Frasier who wrote The Golden bow you
had all these anthropologists and guys
who were contributing to the Bedrock of
what we now do who kind of are more cut
from your cloth than like this myopic
Paper Chasing Academia cloth they were
these you know gentlemen journeyers who
were very polymathic and they had this
wide view of you know what was going on
historically and they would come to
these amazing conclusions and we just I
don't know we have these kind of
nitpicker you know people who I I I as I
I've often said I've learned a great
deal from archaeology and there there
are many great archaeologists still
today who are doing who are doing good
work uh and often they are the
archaeologists who are attacked by their
colleagues yeah but when it but when it
comes to criticism of archaeology I find
that archaeologists tend to circle the
wagons around each other uh rather than
deal with those criticisms
face face on and and so speaking of
archaeology as an institution rather
than individual archaeologists I would
say that the it appears to me that the
mission of archaeology as an institution
is the kind of mission of a
vampire uh they want to suck all the
blood out of the ancient past they want
to drain the past of its blood of its
Vitality of its mystery of everything
that makes it worthwhile looking into
and leave this stuff that can just be
counted and weighed and measured they're
so desperate to be seen as scientists
that they've in order to be regarded as
scientists they've literally thrown the
baby out with the bath water yes and we
end up with this dry discipline uh which
is which is extremely unattractive in
many ways and and fails to do justice to
the romance and the beauty and the
Mystery of the past and that is why
people are interested in the past they
don't want the weighing and measuring
and counting to dominate the debate
there's a great place for weighing and
measuring and counting but for that to
have a monopoly on our understanding of
the past that's a mistake the past is
too big a subject for one small
discipline of Scholars uh who include a
very vocal subgroup uh who who wish to
destroy any alternative ideas it's wrong
for such a small group to have this
death grip on the past and to claim that
they're the only ones who have a right
to speak of the past I couldn't agree
more and I I think the same thing
happens to Plato the people who claim
that Plato has no say on what actually
he's not a historian you know who's just
some philosopher or whatever I think
philosophers actually do the same thing
modern philosophers do the same thing to
Plato where they say things like the
myth of air holds no metaphysical
bearing on what he actually believed or
they call it the cave allegory because
it's just an allegory right well what if
Plato actually believed we live in a
cave and there's some you know light we
can outside of the cave and that the
myth of a is anybody who's had prolonged
and deep experience of aled states of
Consciousness will will know that we do
live in a cave our perceptions are so
channeled into to the physical world
which they need to be we need we do need
to know the laws of physics but we're so
we're so focused into the Physical Realm
that we tend we tend to shut our eyes to
be closed off to a much wider reality
that surrounds all of that and so what
do you think you know you wrote a great
book called Supernatural
and we've talked about jacqu valet
before and how you believe you know a
lot of what people experience through
psychedelic experiences I know you've
done iasa many times and um other things
as well yeah you've experienced some of
these entities and in those Journeys uh
do you believe that is that encapsulates
the modern alien conversation because
there's also this sort of government
disclosure thing around nuts and bolts
and UFO crash
recoveries well I always go I always go
back to I was fortunate to to know um
the Peruvian Shaman Pablo
amaringo um and I didn't know you knew
him I did and and and had his permission
to to reproduce uh a number of his
images in in my book Supernatural which
has recently been retitled Visionary in
the United States with a new forward and
afterward but the main text Remains the
Same I did ask Pablo specifically why he
is painting uh um
EOS in his his in his flying Sorcerers
literally that's what they look like um
and and I said are you are you telling
us that we're being visited by beings
from other planets what are these flying
sources that you're depicting and again
very matter of fact he he said oh well
those are vehicles for entering and
leaving the spirit world that's what he
said there were so maybe there maybe
there is some physical Tech uh that can
gain access to other Realms of reality
uh but we do know that there is a a
neurological Tech that gives access to
that that is the powerful psychedelics
like like dimethyl tryptamine which is
the active ingredient of iasa uh which
do which do completely change our
setting and our state of consciousness
and allow in all kinds of material that
we normally keep out uh and give us give
us access to that material so I think
that I think that whatever the eupo
mystery is um it is it it is going to be
solved by more than one approach and
perhaps the most fruitful approach is
through the mystery of Consciousness and
and what happens in deeply Altered
States Of Consciousness so we now know
that all around the world fortunately
science is progressing and we do in some
ways and we know that that uh at a at a
number of centers now Imperial College
in London University um of California at
San Diego uh that work is being done
with volunteers uh they are being they
are being given dthy tryptamine by
intravenous drip yes now that's
interesting because some of our audience
will have experienced DMT and normally
uh when we experience DMT we're going to
smoke it or vape it and when you smoke
or vape DMT you're into a a 10minute
just utterly overwhelming Journey uh to
the other side of reality uh and and
it's so overwhelming that it's often
quite difficult to remember exactly you
know something happened to you yeah you
know you did have encounters there were
sentient others out there uh who you
communicated with but it's hard to
remember it so what they're doing at
these two universities one in Britain
one in the US what they're doing is they
found a a new technology and I'll
mention my my colleague Andrew galmore
who's one of the the and and Rick
strasman Rick strasman as well very
important in in the invention of this
technology whereby it's possible to keep
Volunteers in the peak DMT state for as
actually as long as you want M typically
they keep them under for an hour but
they could stay under for days because
unlike as far as I know any other
psychelic you never build up tolerance
to
DMT if you take LSD three four five days
in a row by the fifth day you're not
going to have a trip at all it's your
body's become so tolerant of it you have
to take a break before you'll have any
more experiences but with DMT you can
just keep taking it every day and and
and you will not build up tolerance to
it so they're using that particular
special unique characteristic of DMT to
see what happens when people are plunged
into this experience for much longer
than 10 minutes and and those volunteers
are all coming back with reports of
encounters with sentient others uh and
and there is an interesting group now
who are called sentient others made up
by these volunteers who are exchange now
exchanging notes they didn't exchange
notes when they were volunteers because
that was part of the protocol but now
that they're that they've stopped being
volunteers they're they're exchanging
notes and astonishing similarities are
being found and and these these
similarities are are of encounters with
sentient beings who communicate with us
and seem to have an Urgent Message to
impart to us they they want to know us
and they want us to know them uh and and
it seems that there is something of
Great Value in this connection between
the two and a lot of people come out of
these experiences saying they are more
real than real real than real real than
our sort of Waking Life yeah definitely
there is another way that you can have a
prolonged exposure to DMT and that is
the iasa Brew yeah uh because the active
ingredient of iasa is DMT uh the other
ingredient is from the vine it's
particularly the Haring in the vine
which acts as a monoamine oxidase
inhibitor that allows the DMT to be
absorbed orally uh and an iasa
experience can last four or five hours
maybe more but there's the distraction
of the vomiting and the diarrhea
which makes it kind of difficult at
times to focus on your journey uh it's a
really good idea to fast for a day
before an
Iowas do you know how they end up
getting Vine the because like out of
hundreds of thousands of species of the
Amazon yeah like who inspired the first
people to put iOS I think it's a I think
it's a tribute to the scientific nature
of shamanism the more time I've spent
with shamans particularly in the Amazon
the more aware I become um of how they
are constantly EXP experimenting with
plants but this is an almost
Supernatural achievement uh since there
are two kinds of iasa really one is
called yahi and the other is called
aasa what they both have in common is
the aasa vine they both have the iasa
vine in common which contains this mono
Amin oxidase inhibitor that allows DMT
to be absorbed orally but the source of
DMT is different from uh for from in
yahi than it is in I aska in the case of
aasa it's the leaves of a bush called
cotri of vidus it's known as shakuna in
the Amazon uh in the case of yahi it's
the leaves of another Vine uh and that
vine is called diopter diopter Cabana uh
and and um uh that those leaves contain
DMT and they contain not only NN DMT
which is the more known one but also 5
Meo DMT uh and and I can say because my
my most recent experience was with
uh and that that must be overwhelming it
was incredibly powerful experience very
very powerful and and um compelling in
in in every way and again this sense of
a a presence and of and and of
communication and I realize as I'm
saying this to you Jesse Yeah that I am
handing yet another stick to my critics
to beat me with no because that's one of
the things that they do is that they
drug shame me they say that because
hanock has taken iasa this is he comes
up with all these crazy ideas about the
past well the truth you know anything
anything that works to shut somebody
down they will use it goes to like this
epistemological argument of you know you
somehow can't learn anything through
intuition in the modern day for it to be
valid you have to like piece it together
through pure inductive rational logic
which is not how anybody operates it's
not even how rationalists operate if
they audit themselves it's not there's a
there's a real place for intuition and
Imagination abely and and that place
that's what Archaeology in particular
has tried to drive out and most Sciences
have tried drive out you look at the
epiphenomena of science itself the most
productive science comes through dreams
Revelations and downloads there's
actually a great book um by uh Professor
Hima Canalis called bedeviled about the
history of demons and science how
interesting Maxwell had a demon deart
had a demon Le had a demon all these
guys who are literally building the
Science and Tech that push Humanity
forward that all these kind of nitpicky
you know uh current physicists or
whatever you know are building off of
now had these sort of revelatory
downloads stuff that came out of aled
states of conscious absolutely yeah I
know you brought up Francis Crick in the
double
helical that's that's right and and
Carrie Mullis you
know car Mullis saw an alien too you
know so it's time actually that and I'm
glad to say that that's what's happening
at Imperial and at U UCSD yeah that
science is beginning to take these
experiences seriously rather than just
dismiss them of our brain on drugs and
it's it's so beautiful to see science
merge with honestly ancient traditions
because if you look at St Thomas of
aquinus he had an angel hierarchy yeah
you at the Syrian neoplatonist amus he
had an angel hierarchy and you see these
people mapping the spirit world via DMT
and you have these various beings and I
think a really interesting project you
know maybe in a year or two once we get
some more data is how do those line up
to some of these ancient cabalistic
Traditions definitely yeah that's that's
that's what needs to be done and again
science just has to get over its hangup
uh about actually about intuition and
about olded States Of Consciousness and
unfortunately it's beginning to do so
we're get we're seeing some real solid
scientific work being done I mean I
personally would not like to be in an
MRI scanner uh while on a DMT drip but
that's one of the things that they're
doing do do you think you know the the
curse of King tutt's tomb yeah this idea
that like anybody that you know you had
a couple people try to x-ray it and then
they sort of die mysteriously do you
have any sort of take take on that
because I I was looking it up today I
was like I'm G to ask Graham about this
and you know originally it was like this
like mysterious metaphysical thing and
now the answer that like you read online
is like well oh it's like uranium like
coming from like the local geology like
the rocks or something mhm and I'm like
that's not a satisfactory answer like
that's very interesting in it of itself
and actually in a lot of
uh sites where people claim to interact
with the spirit world or aliens even in
a modern context all Skinwalker Ranch
they say that there's like a lot of
uranium around yeah and there's
radioactive substances around and you
can think of the Arc of the Covenant as
maybe a product of the same thing yeah I
specifically looked into that in my book
about the art so is there is there some
connection via and then you have this
connection via you know there's actually
a great book written by a guy named
Robert Hastings about U and this is like
the modern UF
kind of craze or whatever but it's about
how UFOs consistently show up around
nuclear bases all over the US there's
something about nuclear that also
represents a portal yeah in there's like
a few ways out of the simulation it's
like Consciousness protocols and then
there's like something around nuclear
well again let's go back to what Pablo
said you know vehicles for entering and
leaving the spirit world when a shaman
speaks of the spirit world he's just
that close to a Quantum physic Quantum
physicist speaking of paral Dimensions
you know the spirit world is just
another word for a parallel Dimension
which is an idea that again is gaining
currency in in in the world today so I'm
I'm uh very I'm very interested in the
ongoing uh eupo Revelations that are
taking place it's not been Central to my
work over the years I've I've never felt
that Ive I've never felt particularly
attracted to the ancient alien
hypothesis in its nuts and bolts form uh
where where aliens are supposed to have
crossed Interstellar space and built the
pyramids I I do believe that a lost
human civilization is the best answer to
that problem but the question is what
inspired that and I think it was
experiences in Altered States Of
Consciousness and definite encounters
there's no doubt now nobody nobody no
matter how rational they think they are
can dispute that large numbers of people
under the influence of awasa and
straightforward DMT are having
encounters with with sentient beings or
what they interpret as sentient beings
the only question is what are those
things what are those what are those
beings and I think that the there are
two parallel tracks of research here one
is the nuts and bolts parallel and the
one is the Consciousness parallel and it
is only when both are embraced that
we're going to get to to a solution to
this do you think I think I think the
nuts and bolts idea that that that
physical aliens are are here uh and
they've got here in kit that's just a
bit more sophisticated than space
rockets that doesn't work for me uh but
but a much more deeply mysterious idea
which may have inspired many ancient
civilizations I'm open to that yeah I I
agree with that I think it's not quite
just this you know next step in space
travel it's clearly something more and
and you know the the the showing up
around nuclear bases that's that's
that's interesting I mean if you have um
if uh if you have a culture like ours
Global technological
civilization we've been given by the
universe an amazing gift planet
Earth we've been allowed the opportunity
to live out our lives through multiple
Generations on this planet what a gift
to give us are we repaying that gift
properly uh when we indulge in mutually
Mutual destruction when we even have a
word for it called mutually assured
destruction yeah where you you know if
you nuke me even though I'm dead my
submarines are going to Nuke you and
wipe you out this is childish behavior
this is this is this is the behavior of
of unhinged teenagers who who have at
their disposal the power of Gods uh
which is what nuclear weapons are that's
right uh and and and if there is any
oversight in this vast Mysterious
Universe that we're only just beginning
just beginning to understand if there is
any oversight that oversight might well
an interest in the possession of the
power of gods by crazed teenagers which
is what all the leaders of the world
today are I have no respect for any
single leader in the world today I don't
care what party they're from I don't
care what country they're the leader of
I don't have respect for any of them
what they're not they're not leaders
they're misleaders they're pursuing
their own agendas and deceiving the
public in order to get support behind
those agendas we need a whole new way to
function in the world if humanity is
going to continue as a species if
anybody cares about that and I certainly
do I I have I have nine grandchildren I
don't want them to grow up in a world
that's that's suddenly devastated by a
nuclear Holocaust because of the
stupidity the idiocy the
irresponsibility and and and the marcho
attitudes of these teenagers in Old
bodies who are running the world
Amen uh yeah that was beautiful that was
amazing Robert J alimer who's the father
father of uh Vision bombs and sort of
arguably created this calamitous world
that we're in but it was a very complex
character and regretted it immediately
afterwards there was a rumor that um and
I we'd have to you know collect the
exact provenance on this I'll disclaim
to the audience I don't know for sure if
this happened but a student of his was
rumored to come up to him and said um
you know you've created the the first
atom bomb you know how do you feel and
he said I created the first atom bomb in
modern history yeah and if you look back
at the babad Gita and you look back at
like the vas and and a lot of you know
Hindu Traditions it's descriptions of
these sort of crazy death weapons that
seem to you know I may not quote the
line correctly but it roughly I am
become death the destroyer of worlds yes
you know I still get a tingle when I
repeat that there's there's wisdom
passed down to us from from from the
past yeah as far as I know we're the
first human civilization that had the
power of nukes uh but what do we really
know about the deep and ancient past
there's so much there's so much that may
be missing uh it's it's it's it's not
clear but what I what I do know is is
within the civilizations and even the
notion of a loss civilization that I've
been pursuing I think we're the first to
have embraced these horrific weapons uh
where whereby a planetary apocalypse can
be brought Upon Us by our own behavior
where we can actually do it to our
ourselves you know where we don't need
that gigantic solar Outburst or we don't
need to be hit by multiple pieces of a
disintegrating Comet we're so stupid and
so irresponsible that we'll just do it
to ourselves we're so tribal that we
that we regard our particular tribe as
having a right to wipe out other tribes
this has to change if there's to be any
future for Humanity do you think that
the veil is thinning and simultaneous to
multi-polar nuclear world that's on the
brink we're also sort of commensurately
waking up yeah I do I do I think the
only hope is an elevation of
consciousness uh and and and that has to
be across a wide range of the population
uh no no dictator comes to power without
a substantial mass of the population
supporting that dictator that's the they
don't just seize power they're they're
manifesting a particular impulse within
society and that and that impulse uh
comes from low Consciousness uh a very
low State of Consciousness and I would
say that my on on leaders a moment ago I
would say those
who are leading the world or misleading
the world today are at the lowest
possible State of Consciousness that a
human being can have and how tragic it
is that they're that they're running the
world Consciousness change will be what
saves us if it if it can happen fast
enough if more and more people wake up
and realize the predicament we've put
ourselves in and and and and realize
that we're all fellow human beings
sharing ing this journey on this amazing
Garden of a planet voyaging through the
universe uh and we need to look after
each other and look after ourselves
great power brings great responsibility
uh we should not use that power for
Destruction we should use it for
building and for construction if people
are in a more difficult condition than
we are we should help them get out of
that condition we shouldn't kill them
off that's beautiful do you remember
when we talked about the teos cave are
you familiar with that I am yeah I I've
never I've never really followed that up
much except except it's becoming more
and more obvious and again I Tred to to
look into this in in season 2 of ancient
apocalypse that the Amazon is a place of
Secrets uh a great unknown and the
moment we start scratching the edges of
that unknown we find things that are
stunning and a inspiring and and just we
never conceived with them before so the
notion of what is it these gold tablets
in the in the tyos caves it's eador
exactly at the edge of Ecuador this this
cave that they they claim to have
ancient what feels like alien metallic
artifacts it's like a library actually
of these books and uh the interesting
thing is you know I I've always found
this to be the most interesting thing
about the Taos cave is that because who
knows whether it exists but Neil
Armstrong went to the moon he comes back
he acts kind of weird to be honest by it
just objective accounts and you know
says some interesting things and then
the next Expedition he goes on has
nothing to do with space it's to this
cage at the edge of the Amazon which is
rumored to have these sort of alien
artifacts and he brings this BBC film
crew in with him in 1975 and I've I want
to watch that documentary yeah right
well it's online I'll send it to you
yeah please please yeah yeah and what
happened he didn't find it but I'm in
touch with this guy who claims that his
father LED Neil Armstrong down the wrong
path yeah so and then we had a call with
him and you were like I don't think
that's going to happen like you like I
don't think you guys have the answer to
this and so but I who knows who knows
yeah yeah is there a place where like if
you had just infinite money is there a
place you would look now that you think
is the most productive or do you think
it is the Amazon you think it's
lightering the Amazon for No it's it's
more than one place okay um and I've
tried to I've tried to draw attention to
this through through my work
um the reason that I'm interested in the
idea of A Lost Civilization at all is is
because of these astonishing shared
symbols and ideas that are found all
around the world this shared knowledge
the same idea of what happens after
death and so on that's that's the that's
the where my curiosity has driven me to
inquire into this possibility at all um
and I have very definite reasons for
inquiring into this possibility but I'm
often accused of presenting a what they
call a god of the gaps argument when I
say that there are certain very
important parts of the world that
archaeologists have never really looked
in properly at all that's not a god of
the gaps argument I'm arguing the case
for A Lost Civilization because of a
mass of evidence that has led me to the
conclusion that there is a forgotten
episode in the human story uh and that
it it manifests through very many shared
ideas and influences all around the
world but the gaps are not just any old
gaps the gaps are the Sahara Desert the
Sahara Desert yeah there's been some
archaeology but it's pretty minimal I
think if we want to get into the origins
of ancient Egyptian civilization we're
going to have to start looking at what
the Sahara was doing during the Ice Age
uh indeed we're going to have to start
looking at what a lot of places were
doing in the Ice Age the Sahara about 9
million square kilometers hardly touched
by archaeology I'm not saying there's no
archaeology but it's minimal um I would
like to see a much more expanded
investigation of the entire Sahara
Desert which we know was green and
fertile and a great place for people to
evolve a civilization do you know Jimmy
coretti I know Jimmy yeah so so what's
your Jimmy so it's like you I'm not I'm
not into the eye of the Sahara the the
rich out Stucker the rich I'm not into
it I'm not going to write it off
completely yeah uh I get that the ring
structure resembles how Plato described
Atlantis um but it's premature for me to
pronounce on that cuz I've never been
there well you think Atlantis was
possibly in North America Randall
Carlson thinks maybe it was and the
azors in Portugal I the aors is a very
interesting very interesting potential
but I think it was more than one place
okay I think it was a I think it was was
was a civilization that that uh
precisely occupied the places that were
that were very hospitable during the Ice
Age which are not not accessible or not
hospitable now um and and um the the
Sahara Desert is one of those the Amazon
rainforest is another the submerged
Continental shelves that were above
water during the ice agent are now under
water again the Amazon the Sahara Desert
the submerged Continental shelves none
of them have had enough research done to
say oh there was definitely no Lost
Civilization we have to do more research
those gaps on their own wouldn't be
enough but it's the Curiosity it's the
clues it's the Mysteries it's the
enigmas from the past archaeology does
not explain that motivate The Quest For
A Lost Civilization of the past and then
when we ask ourselves when I ask myself
what are the most likely places that
we're going to find the hard evidence
for that those are the places precisely
where archaeology hasn't looked enough
well and where they are looking like in
the Amazon as I show in in season two
ofoc where they are looking they're
finding extraordinary Mysteries they're
they're finding that the Amazon was once
populated by tens of millions of people
that they were able to feed themselves
that there were huge cities in the
Amazon with permanent populations that
there are enormous geometrical
Earthworks precisely very precise on an
enormous scale which actually can only
be seen in full form from from an aerial
view and yet there they there they are
and and and that's an example of stories
that you've heard 16th 15th century
explorers yeah seeing these things
driving your research and then you
corroborating those stories and if you
were to a priori discount those stories
you wouldn't be able to figure this
stuff out and you're doing real
scientific work that's right I and and
that's one of the differences between me
and me and AR ologist is that they they
do a priority discount those stories um
and and yet when those stories are
ground truth has ground truthed as has
been the case in the Amazon with the
introduction of liar technology those
stories turn out to be true absolutely
well I would bet on everything you're
saying because you know Archaeology is
200 years old and the history of
Archaeology is the history of human
civilization getting older so I think
it's actually an easy base case bet to
just say you're probably right well I I
I wouldn't go so far but I would what I
would say what I would say I'm probably
right on um is that uh it's worth
approaching the past with a much more
open mind absolutely well I whether I'm
right in everything that I say that's
another matter of course it's one of the
areas where where my archaeologists uh
enemies or or friends constantly
misrepresent me because they they
misrepresent me as somebody who's sang
I've proved the existence of A Lost
Civilization I have never made such a
claim I have never made such a claim I
am following my curiosity and I hope
that readers and viewers will take that
Journey with me and will see the
inspiration of the past and will do
their own work on it this is a work in
progress I am nowhere near proving the
existence of A Lost Civilization just
like they are nowhere near proving the
non-existence of such a thing but you
were you're Pro you're breaking look
everybody who watches ancient apocalypse
grew up reading in a textbook that
people crossed the bearing straight in a
specific time period in the Ice Age
there were no people in North America
before that yeah and you're showing
Footprints from 23,000 years right so
like that's important you know that's
where whereas the old model said that
the Americas weren't weren't inhabited
by humans until just 13 and a half
thousand years ago or less fortunately
that old model is out of the window now
but what what is still what is still
facing severe opposition from
archaeology you really have to you
really have to nail everything down to
such a point that they actually can't
dismiss it before they begin to accept
it and those Footprints in New Mexico
23,000 year old human Footprints in New
Mexico which are interspersed with
Footprints of mammoths and mastadons and
giant sloths and all the extinct megap
fora of the Ice Age they actually have
been d ated you can't date the footprint
but you can date seeds that are embedded
within them and those seeds that it's
been done multiple times now even the
most hostile archaeologists can't reject
it any longer those Footprints are
23,000 or maybe a bit older but what is
still not accepted by the majority of
archaeologists is even much older
evidence for humans in the Americas
going back as much as 130,000 years into
the past 10 times older than the
supposed first inhabit itation of the
Americans as it was held by
archaeologist until just a few years ago
another great example I think is 65 70
million years ago the asteroid impact
Theory wiping out dinosaurs that was
presented by Luis Walter Alvarez who's a
character in Christopher Nolan's you
know Oppenheimer movie because he was
instrumental in creating nuclear fion
and the atomic bomb and he came up with
this theory was totally cast castigated
by the archaeology community and now
it's it was LE and his son Walter they
they were they were they were both um
subjected to humil ating attacks by by
many other scientists and interestingly
they were relying initially on the same
data that I've been criticized for
saying data apparently in America you
say data yeah but that's
okay I think anybody watching would get
you know make the adjustment live in
their head yeah they were initially
relying on what I called impact proxies
they didn't have a crater this was one
of the reasons why their critics found
it so easy to dismiss them they said
where's the crater you know if you're
talking about wiping out an an entire
clade of creatures the the all the
dinosaurs go overnight there must be a
crature and there isn't one but they
said no we don't need a crature because
we've got the proxies which Pro that
there was a huge impact we've got the um
we've got the melt glass we've got the
carbon microspherules we've we've we've
got the triny we've got the shocked
quartz you know we've we we we've got
evidence all over the world of a a
boundary layer that testifies to this
but it still wasn't accepted and until
they found the crater these are these
are which is the chickalo crater deeply
buried uh in the Gulf of Mexico um it's
the same argument that's being used to
reject the notion that there was a
impacts with and Air Bursts from a
series of objects of a disintegrating
Comet the the debris trail of a
disintegrating Comet roughly 12,800
years ago that's the younger dras impact
hypothesis at the moment the prime
evidence for that is exactly the same
impact proxies that Lewis and Walter
Alvarez were offering for their Theory
which eventually proved to be completely
correct and I think it will be the same
with the comet research group and their
work on the younger dras impact
hypothesis well I pray all the amazing
work you're doing all the amazing
Consciousness work you're involved in as
well that moves faster than whatever T
meteor stream shower we might be hitting
as an earth and it's been an absolute
honor to sit down with you Graham and
it's always a blast and really we really
really appreciate everything you've done
total pleasure I always enjoy talking to
you as well Jesse I I remember our last
conversation very well and it was it was
a great pleasure so thank you for having
me on the show again always and do you
guys have
anything thank you thank you thank you
thank you thank you on the macro level
of what the world is going through right
now I think we're like on the pr
precipice of of a m of a really
unfathomable paradigm shift in our own
understanding of I think we are place in
the universe our human
so I think I think your work is almost
like it's it's time is we can already
feel people starting to be more familiar
with it but I actually think like this
decade that we're in it's only going to
be year by year more people being open
to this because everything is going to
be in question and it's not just going
to be like wait well well you know like
we've heard astronomers for past 20
years tell us that the universe is 13.8
billion billion years old and now it's
like 27 yeah exactly that's one of my
motos stuff just keeps on getting
older and the UFO thing is actually
really cool too because you have all
these Executives at locki Martin and
stuff saying
like basically expressing extremely
trippy out their worldviews you have
guys you know this guy Jim Ryder this VP
of Space Systems there saying that the
VIN the fail sorry the veil is thinning
and that that is literally the
magnetosphere of the earth which is
weakening right now and so we're seeing
more and more of this stuff as a result
of that and if like that you know it's
interesting with with with with
perception um that the more and more
people who start to perceive something
that previously has not been looked at
the more visible that thing becomes it's
it's it's it's like the energy it's like
the energy of an of an open mind spreads
out um and and and um it's it's
interesting that that this that this is
mobilized to a certain extent around
around ancient ancient history um
because the so-called leaders in the
study of the past are are archaeologists
and I think this is one of the reasons
why my work has been found so
threatening by archaeologist because I'm
questioning their leadership but
interestingly on a broader scale people
all over the world are questioning all
kinds of leadership yes uh particularly
political leadership but also medical
leadership and other leadership uh we we
are seeking to to have sovereignty well
do you believe in the age of Aquarius
you know like that this we live in the
dawning of the age of Aquarius which of
course is another processional Motif
that's right that's about that's about
the procession out of the age of Pisces
when Pisces houses the sun on the spring
aquinox and into the age of Aquarius
when Aquarius houses the sun on the
spring aquinox also we are at that Lial
point right now and it's all but it also
surrounds a collapse in Global
Leadership hierarchical structures are
probably going to collapse and it feels
like that's they in the Death Rows and
that's sort of happening does it it does
it's a it's a very challenging time it's
also a Time filled with potential for
for Hope for the future things are there
ultimately the choice is up to us and a
merging of the science and the spirit
kind of what you're doing where what you
your work is the interplay between your
own intuition Consciousness and then
evidential artifacts yeah and it's it's
this oscillation back and forth and
they're kind of meeting at some omega
Point yeah and I I see that happening
everywhere and it's it's beautiful yeah
it is it is